+++
title = "openGauss Community is officially launched"
date = "2020-09-28"
tags = ["theme"]
banner = "img/banners/banner-20200928_en.png"
author = "openGauss"
summary = "openGauss source code is officially open, welcome to visit."
+++

[Shenzhen, China, July 1, 2020] Yesterday, Huawei announced to open source the code of openGauss database, and built up the openGauss community. https://opengauss.org/en/ officially goes live.

openGauss is an open source relational database management system, which leveraged years of Huawei’s industry experience at database. We believe the magic of open source community will collaborate more developers to join in and co-work to design an enterprise open source database community which will support heterogeneous architect.

The openGauss kernel was derived from PostgreSQL and focused on building advance features for architecture, transactions and storage engines with performance optimization. It is deeply optimized for ARM architecture and retains compatibility with x86 architecture. openGauss features:

+ Multi-core architecture for concurrency control, NUMA-aware storage engines, and SQL-Bypass (for intelligent path selection). openGauss delivers up to 1.5 million TPMC in the 128-cores scenario with 2 Kunpeng processors.

+ Quick failover with a recovery time objective (RTO) of less than 10s and whole stage data protection for security and reliability.

+ Intelligent parameter tuning, slow SQL diagnosis, multi-dimensional performance self-monitoring, and online SQL execution prediction for significantly simplified O&M.

The Mulan PSL v2 license of openGauss allows developer to modify, use, and reference code. The openGauss community has also set up a technical committee to encourage developers to contribute source code and documents.

Huawei has announced the strategy of “open hardware, open source software, and partner enablement”. It supports partners in building their commercial release version based on openGauss to continuously increase their competitive strength.

openGauss is a key part of the database infrastructure. Huawei will continue to work with developers and partners in building the openGauss community for a prosperous global ecosystem.

openGauss repository: https://gitee.com/opengauss

openGauss mirror repository: https://github.com/opengauss-mirror